---
title: "Fosdata"
---

<style>

/* Optional: explicitly auto (most browsers) */
::-webkit-scrollbar {
  width: auto !important;
  height: auto !important;
}

html {
  scrollbar-width: auto !important;    /* Firefox reset */
  scrollbar-color: auto !important;
}

::-webkit-scrollbar,
::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb {
  background: initial !important;
  color: initial !important;
  border-radius: initial !important;
  border: initial !important;
}
</style>

# fosdata

This is a documentation site for the [speegled/fosdata](https://github.com/speegled/fosdata) package.

This data is valid as of November 13, 2025.

## Installation

You can install the fosdata package in R using the following command:

```r
remotes::install_github("speegled/fosdata")
```

## Using this documentation

Each dataset has its own page here, and pages follow a standardized format. We start by showing the description, then importing and basic usage, an interactive sample, LLM instructions, and finally the fields and source.

### The interactive sample

The interactive sample is a fully self-contained R environment with fosdata, ggplot2, and dplyr loaded. You can use the R editors on each page to interact with the dataset, generate plots, and otherwise explore the data. You can use plot functions (including usmap) to generate plots, and you can use the "console" tab to view the text output of your R code (if you are using things like print statements)

Each dataset has its own sample that has been generated to show the data in some interesting way. Please be patient, it may take several seconds to load (especially if loading for the first time).

### The LLM instructions

If you are using an LLM, you can copy-paste the instructions to accompany your prompt to inform the model of the fields and their types in the dataset so it can provide a more accurate response.

## License

Most of the data sets in this package have a creative commons license. Providing the data in this convenient package is not meant to cancel or to modify the existing licenses in any way. Please refer to the references in the man pages for information on any individual data set.

This *documentation* is licensed under MIT, but that does not mean the datasets or the speegled/fosdata package itself are licensed under MIT. This documentation is unaffiliated with the speegled/fosdata package and is not endorsed by it.

## References

Refer to [speegled/fosdata](https://github.com/speegled/fosdata) for more information.

## About this documentation

This documentation was generated by Jack Crane using the [hugo](https://gohugo.io/) static site generator. The source code for this documentation is on GitHub at [jackcrane/fosdata](https://github.com/jackcrane/fosdata). Comments and suggestions to this documentation are welcome. They can be submitted by opening an issue on the GitHub repository or by emailing jack@jackcrane.rocks.